# OPA Core Module Release v1.14.0

Welcome to the latest release of `OPA` module of [Kubernetes Fury Distribution](https://github.com/sighupio/fury-distribution) maintained by team SIGHUP.

This is a minor release including the following changes:

- Add support for Kubernetes 1.32
- Drop support for Kubernetes 1.28
- Update Gatekeeper to version 3.18.2
- Update Kyverno to version 1.13.4
- [[#114]](https://github.com/sighupio/fury-kubernetes-opa/pull/114) Add kapp `rebaseRule` configuration to avoid replacing Gatekeeper's webhook TLS secret content. Notice that this change applies only when using the module trough `furyctl apply`.


## Component Images 🚢

| Component                   | Supported Version                                                                       | Previous Version |
| --------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------- |
| `gatekeeper`                | [`v3.18.2`](https://github.com/open-policy-agent/gatekeeper/releases/tag/v3.18.2)       | `v3.17.1`        |
| `gatekeeper-policy-manager` | [`v1.0.13`](https://github.com/sighupio/gatekeeper-policy-manager/releases/tag/v1.0.13) | `No update`        |
| `kyverno`                   | [`v1.13.4`](https://github.com/kyverno/kyverno/releases/tag/v1.13.4)                    | `v1.12.6`        |

> Please refer the individual release notes to get a detailed information on each release.

## Update Guide 🦮

### Process

#### Gatekeeper

To upgrade this package from `v1.13.0` to `v1.14.0`, you need to download this new version, then apply the `kustomize` project. No further action is required.

```bash
kustomize build katalog/gatekeeper | kubectl apply -f -
```
#### Kyverno

To upgrade this package from `v1.13.0` to `v1.14.0`, you need to download this new version, then run the `katalog/kyverno/upgrade-paths/v1.12.6-v1.13.4/migrate.sh` script that will perform the necessary steps for migration.

```bash
cd ./katalog/kyverno/upgrade-paths/v1.12.6-v1.13.4
sh ./migrate.sh
```
Please also pay attention, Kyverno v1.13 includes potentially breaking changes that depend on the target environment:

Removal of wildcard permissions:
- Prior versions contained wildcard view permissions which allowed Kyverno controllers to view all resources. In v1.13, these were replaced with more granular permissions. This change will not impact policies during admission controls but may impact reports, and may impact users with mutate and generate policies on CRs as the controller may no longer be able to view them.

Default exception settings:
- In Kyverno v1.12 and previous versions, policy exceptions were enabled by default for all namespaces. The new default in Kyverno v1.13 no longer automatically enables exceptions for all namespaces, instead requires explicit configuration of the namespaces to which exceptions apply, which may need to be added.

For more details check the [PR](https://github.com/sighupio/fury-kubernetes-opa/pull/117).