
# OPA Core Module Release v1.7.0

Welcome to the latest release of the `OPA` module of [Kubernetes Fury Distribution](https://github.com/sighupio/fury-distribution) maintained by team SIGHUP.

This release includes the following changes:

- Gatekeeper has been updated to v3.9.0 with mutating capabilities in *beta*.
- The custom rules have been updated to use `constraintTemplates` v1 and improved with added descriptions and better deny messages.
- The Gatekeeper audit process for the provided constraints now triggers violations for pre-existing resources.
- A set of custom Prometheus alerts that get triggered when the Gatekeeper webhooks are misbehaving for more than 5 min\* has been added.
- The Grafana Dashboard for Gatekeeper has been updated.
- Gatekeeper Policy Manager has been updated to v1.0.0, including a revamped UI.
- Gatekeeper Policy Manager now uses local manifests instead of pulling them at `kustomize build` time.
- The module's documentation has been updated and improved.

> \* The alert for webhooks failing in `Ignore` mode requires Kubernetes version 1.24 or later.

## Component Images 🚢

| Component                   | Supported Version                                                                     | Previous Version |
| --------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------- |
| `gatekeeper`                | [`v3.9.0`](https://github.com/open-policy-agent/gatekeeper/releases/tag/v3.9.0)       | `v3.7.0`         |
| `gatekeeper-policy-manager` | [`v1.0.0`](https://github.com/sighupio/gatekeeper-policy-manager/releases/tag/v1.0.0) | `v0.5.1`         |

> Please refer the linked release notes to get more information on the changes for these versions.

## Update Guide 🦮

### Warnings

- The `http.send` OPA built-in is now disabled. See: <https://open-policy-agent.github.io/gatekeeper/website/docs/externaldata#motivation>
- Enabled beta mutating capabilities. See: <https://open-policy-agent.github.io/gatekeeper/website/docs/mutation>

Upgrade from `v1.6.2` should be straightforward and no downtime is expected.

### Process

To upgrade this core module from `v1.6.2` to `v1.7.0`, you need to download this new version, then apply the `kustomize` project. No further action is required.

```bash
kustomize build katalog/gatekeeper | kubectl apply -f -
```
